[KNAVE](http://questingblog.com/knave-1-0/)
is a rules toolkit created by Ben Milton for running old school
fantasy RPGs without classes. Adding, subtracting and modifying rules is
both expected and encouraged. Knave's features include:

***High compatibility with OSR games.*** If you have a library of OSR
bestiaries, adventure and spell books, little or no conversion is needed
to use them with Knave.

***Fast to teach, easy to run.*** If you are introducing a group of new
players to OSR games, Knave allows them to make characters and
understand all the rules in minutes.

***No classes.*** Every PC is a Knave, a tomb-raiding, adventure-seeking
ne'er-do-well who wields a spell book just as easily as a blade. This is
an ideal system for players who like to switch up their character's
focus from time to time and don't like being pigeonholed. A PC's role in
the party is determined largely by the equipment they carry.

***Abilities are king.*** All d20 rolls use the six standard abilities.
The way that ability scores and bonuses work has also been cleaned up,
rationalized, and made consistent with how other systems like armor
work.

***Optional player-facing rolls.*** Knave easily accommodates referees
who want the players to do all the rolling. Switching between the
traditional shared-rolling model and players-only rolling can be done
effortlessly on the fly.

***Copper standard.*** Knave assumes that the common unit of currency is
the copper penny. All item prices use this denomination and approximate
actual medieval prices.

***A list of 100 level-less spells.***

***[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/):*** You are
free to share and adapt this material for any purpose, including
commercially, as long as you give attribution.

***Designer commentary.*** The rules include designer comments
explaining why each rule was written the way it was, to aid in hacking
the game.
